My Father...
if this chalice...
cannot get past me
without me drinking it...
thy will be done...
So be it...
Peter...
You could not watch
even one hour with me?
Master, what has happened to you?
Should I call the others, Lord?
No, John.
I don't want them
to see me like this.
Are you in danger?
Should we flee, Master?
Stay here.
Watch.
Pray.
What is wrong with him?
He seems afraid.
He had spoken about danger
while we ate...
He mentioned betrayal and...
Thirty.
Thirty, Judas.
That was the agreement
between me... and you?
- Yes.
- Deliver it.
Let's go.
Where?
Where is he?
Hear me, Father.
Rise up...
Defend me.
Save me from the traps
they set for me...
Do you really believe...
that one man can bear...
the full burden of sin?
Shelter me, O Lord.
I trust in You.
In You...
I take refuge.
No one man...
can carry this burden...
I tell you.
It is far too heavy.
Saving their souls is too costly.
Never.
No one.
No.
Never.
Father...
You can do all things.
If it is possible...
let this chalice pass from me...
But let Your will be done...
not mine.
Who is your father?
Who are you?
Let's go.
Who are you looking for?
We're looking
for Jesus of Nazareth.
I am he.
Hail, Rabbi!
Judas...
you betray the Son of Man...
with a kiss?
Get them!
Peter!
Put it down!
Those who live by the sword...
shall die by the sword!
Put it down.
Malchus! Malchus!
Get up!
We've got him.
Let's go!
Take the Galilean!
What, Mary?
What is it?
Listen...
"Why is this night different
from every other night?"
"Because once we were slaves...
and we are slaves no longer."
They've seized him!
Everyone you can, hear?
To the courtyard of the High Priest.
- Quick! Go!
- Yes, yes!
Halt! Not so fast.
This is not your party,
you toothless vermin.
Peter...
Mary!
Peter!
Hey! What's this?
What's going on here?
In there! Stop them!
They've arrested him!
In secret! In the night!
To hide their crime from you!
Stop them!
What are you yelling about,
woman?
Who have they arrested?
Jesus.
Jesus of Nazareth!
- Shut up!
- Jesus!
In there!
Shut up! Enough!
She's crazy.
A criminal.
Brought in for questioning.
That's all.
Broke the temple laws.
I see.
Better go tell him
there's more trouble brewing.
Tell who?
Abenader, you idiot.
Get going.
Go!
Jesus...
Jesus!
Are you hungry?
l am.
This is certainly...
- a tall table!
- Yes.
Who is it for?
A rich man.
Does he like to eat
standing up...
I guess?
No.
He prefers to eat like this.
Tall table, tall chairs!
Well, I haven't made them yet.
This will never catch on!
No, no!
Take off that dirty apron
before you come in.
And wash your hands.
lt has begun, Lord.
So be it.
Sir, there's trouble at...
What, in the middle of the night,
Abenader?
I'm sorry.
What's the problem?
Trouble within the walls.
Caiaphas had a certain prophet
put into custody.
Who?
Some Galilean.
The Pharisees apparently
hate the man.
A Galilean?
Who are you talking about?
Who is this beggar
you bring to us...
chained up like a condemned man?
He's Jesus...
the Nazarene troublemaker.
You're Jesus of Nazareth?
They say you're a king.
Where is this kingdom of yours?
What line of kings
do you descend from?
Speak up!
You're just the son
of some obscure carpenter, no?
Some say you're Elijah.
But he was carried off to heaven
in a chariot!
Why don't you say something?
You've been brought here
as a blasphemer!
What do you say to that?
Defend yourself.
I have spoken openly
to everyone.
I've taught...
in the temple...
where we all gather.
Ask those who have heard
what I have to say.
Is that how you address
the high priest?
With arrogance?
lf I have spoken evil...
tell me what evil I have said.
But if not...
why do you hit me?
We'll listen to those
who heard your blasphemies.
Good!
Let's hear them.
He cures the sick by magic!
By magic!
With the help of devils!
I've seen it.
He casts out devils...
with the help of devils!
Listen!
He calls himself
the King of the Jews!
The King of the Jews!
No, he calls himself
the Son of God!
He said
he would destroy the temple...
and rebuild it in three days!
Worse!
He claims he's the Bread of Life!
And if we don't eat his flesh
or drink his blood...
we won't inherit eternal life!
Silence!
You're all under this man's spell.
Either offer proof
of his wrongdoing...
or then...
be quiet!
This entire proceeding
is an outrage.
All I've heard from these witnesses
is mindless contradiction!
Who called this meeting anyway?
And at this hour of the night?
Where are the other members
of the council?
Get him out of here!
Get out!
This is a travesty!
A beastly travesty!
Order!
Haven't you anything to say?
No answer?
I ask you now...
Jesus of Nazareth...
tell us,
are you the Messiah?
The son...
of the living God?
I Am...
and you will see the Son of Man
seated at the right hand of power...
and coming
on the clouds of heaven.
Blasphemy!
You heard him!
There's no need for witnesses!
Your verdict!
What is your verdict?
Death!
Attention!
You can take him!
Haven't I seen you
in the company of the Galilean?
Yes!
You're one of his disciples!
- I recognize you!
- No!
Quiet!
I don't know the man.
You are Peter!
One of the disciples of Jesus.
A disciple of Jesus!
I don't know the man!
You are wrong!
Stop!
I've seen you before!
Stop him! He's one of them!
You're wrong, damn you!
I swear I don't know the man.
I've never seen him before!
Wherever you go, Lord...
I will follow, closely.
To prison...
even to death.
Amen, I say to you...
before the cock crows...
three times you will deny me.
Peter?
No, no...
I am unworthy!
I have denied him, Mother!
Denied him...
three times!
Let's go! You take care of it.
In there!
Let him pass.
He's harmless.
Release him!
Take back the silver.
Here!
I've sinned...
betrayed innocent blood.
Take back your silver!
Take it!
I don't want it!
If you think you've betrayed
innocent blood, that's your affair.
Take your money and go.
Now go!
Let him go! Let him go!
What's wrong? Are you all right?
Look at his mouth.
Hey, can we look at it?
You need help? Can we help?
He's bleeding! Look! Blood!
What's wrong with you?
Leave me alone...
you little...
satans!
It's a cursing!
Are you cursed?
He's cursed!
Yes, the curse is inside him,
look!
Watch out, it's like burning oil
from his bones!
Get away from me!
Leave me alone!
Don't condemn this Galilean.
He's holy.
You will only bring trouble
on yourself.
Do you want to know
my idea of trouble, Claudia?
This stinking outpost,
that filthy rabble out there.
Do you always punish your prisoners
before they're judged?
- Governor...
- What accusations does this man have?
Well...
if he weren't a malefactor, we wouldn't
have brought him before you.
That's not what I asked.
Why don't you judge him
according to your own laws?
Consul, you know that for us...
it's unlawful...
to condemn any man to death.
To death?
What has this man done
to merit such a penalty?
He has violated our Sabbath,
Consul.
- Go on.
- He has seduced the people...
taught foul and disgusting...
doctrines!
Isn't he the prophet you welcomed
into Jerusalem only five days ago?
And now you want him dead?
Can any of you explain
this madness to me?
Your Excellency...
Your Excellency, please...
So far...
the high priest hasn't told you
this man's greatest crime.
He has become the leader
of a large and dangerous sect...
who hail him
as the Son of David!
He also claims, Governor...
that he is the Messiah,
the king promised to the Jews.
He has forbidden his followers
to pay tribute
to the emperor, Consul!
Bring him here!
Go!
Drink.
Are you the king of the Jews?
Does this question come from you?
Or do you ask me this because others
have told you that is what I am?
Why would I ask you that?
Am I a Jew?
Your own people,
your high priests...
delivered you up to me.
They want me
to have you executed.
Why? What have you done?
Are you a king?
My kingdom is not of this world.
If it were...
do you think my followers
would have let them hand me over?
Then, you are a king?
That is why I was born.
To give testimony to the truth.
All men who hear the truth...
hear my voice.
Truth!
What is truth?
I have questioned this prisoner,
and I find no cause in him.
Wait, wait...
This man is a Galilean,
is he not?
Yes, he is.
Then he is King Herod's subject.
Let Herod judge him.
- Governor...
- Hand him over.
Jesus of Nazareth!
Where?
Where is he?
This...
is Jesus of Nazareth?
Yes. I must warn you...
Is it true that you restore sight
to the blind?
Raise men from the dead?
Where do you...
get your power?
Are you the one
whose birth was foretold?
Answer me!
Are you a king?
How about me?
Will you work a little miracle
for me?
Take this stupid fool
out of my sight!
He's not guilty of a crime,
he's just crazy!
Give him a fool's homage...
What is truth, Claudia?
Do you hear it?
Recognize it when it is spoken?
Yes, I do.
Don't you?
How?
Can you tell me?
If you will not hear the truth,
no one can tell you.
Truth...
Do you want to know
what my truth is, Claudia?
I've been putting down rebellions
in this rotten outpost for 11 years.
If I don't condemn this man...
I know Caiphas will start a rebellion.
If I do condemn him...
then his followers may.
Either way,
there will be bloodshed.
Caesar has warned me, Claudia.
Warned me twice.
He swore that the next time
the blood would be mine.
That is my truth!
Herod refuses
to condemn the man.
They're bringing him back here.
We're going to need
reinforcements.
I don't want to cause
an uprising.
There is already an uprising.
King Herod found no cause
in this man.
And I...
I didn't find any either.
An unit!
Another unit here!
Quiet!
Have you no respect
for our Roman procurator?
As you know,
every year I release a criminal
back to you.
We are now holding
a notorious murderer...
called Barabbas.
Which of the two men
would you have me release to you?
The murderer Barabbas?
Or Jesus, called the Messiah?
He is not the Messiah!
He is an imposter!
A blasphemer!
Free Barabbas!
Again I ask you:
Which of these two men
should I release to you?
Free Barabbas!
Free him.
What would you have me do
with Jesus the Nazarene?
Have him crucified!
No!
I will chastise him...
but then I will set him free.
See to it that the punishment
is severe, Abenader.
But don't let them kill the man.
I heard that he works miracles!
He's just a fool!
He's not a fool! He's a king!
They're rolling the words!
Cheers!
Silence, idiots!
The wine is served!
Get out!
Let's go to him!
For you, Caminus!
Meat for the dogs!
I will write a poem
on his back!
Do more, talk less!
I will write with blood!
Why not?
I'm going to make music!
This will be fun!
To work.
My heart is ready, Father.
My heart is ready.
One!
Two!
Three!
Four!
Five!
Six!
Harder!
Seven!
Eight!
Nine!
Ten!
Eleven!
Harder!
Thirteen!
Fourteen!
Fifteen!
Sixteen!
Eighteen!
Nineteen!
Twenty!
Twenty-one!
Twenty-two!
Twenty-three!
Twenty-four...
Twenty-five!
Twenty-six!
Twenty-seven!
Twenty-eight!
Twenty-nine!
Thirty!
Let's go.
Thirty-one!
Thirty-two!
Enough!
He wants more?
I can not believe!
His resistance is incredible!
Maybe he likes, right?
Change the instrument.
With spikes, is it?
No. The meat hook.
Show how you like it!
Try this one.
This one can do you good.
Try it, try it!
What are you doing?
My writing is overflowing!
Get out!
Now, harder!
My son...
when and where...
and how...
will you choose
to be delivered of this?
Sixteen!
Seventeen!
Eighteen!
Nineteen!
Thirty-five!
Thirty-six!
Forty...
Enough!
Flip him.
Eight!
Nine!
Ten!
If the world hates you...
remember that it...
has hated me first.
And also remember...
that no servant
is greater than his master.
If they persecuted me...
they will persecute you.
You must not be afraid.
The Comforter will come...
the Spirit
who reveals the truth...
about God...
and who comes from the Father.
Hey!
Enough!
Your orders were
to punish this man!
Not to scourge him to death!
Take him away.
Get going!
Get him out of here!
Your majesty...
Take care of it.
A beautiful rose bush.
Look at him...
King of the worms!
Hail, wormy king!
Hail!
The color of royalty!
We're here to pay our respects.
Esteemed in your royal robe!
Hail!
It will be now.
Behold the man!
Look!
Crucify him!
Quiet!
Isn't this enough?
Look at him!
Crucify him!
Shall I crucify your king?
We have no king but Caesar!
Speak to me.
I have the power to crucify you,
or else to set you free.
You have no power over me...
except what is given you...
from above.
Therefore,
it is he who delivered me to you...
who has the greater...
sin.
If you free him, Governor...
that will mean...
you are no friend of Caesar's!
Because of this...
you must crucify him!
Hold them!
- Bring me the water.
- Hold the scum!
It is you who want to crucify him,
not I.
Look you to it.
I am innocent
of this man's blood.
Let his blood be on us
and on our children!
Abenader.
Do as they wish.
Get away!
Jews!
Here comes the king!
Come on, leaders!
Away from the walls!
Rabble!
These Jews!
I am your servant, Father.
Your servant,
and the son of Your handmaid.
Why do you embrace
your cross, fool?
Get up!
All right, your highness!
Let's move!
I heard he did miracles!
Help me get near him.
This way. Follow me.
Follow me...
Get up!
This way, Mother.
The king of the Jews!
We have to divide them!
This way!
Mother...
I'm here...
Son...
See, Mother...
I make all things new!
Let's go!
Who is that?
Who?
She's the Galilean's mother.
Let's go.
Hurry!
Faster!
Don't fret, my daughter.
Don't fret.
Jew!
This way! This way!
You! You!
You!
Are you blind?
Can't you see, he can't go on?
Help him!
Dad, dad...
You!
Yes, you there!
Get over here!
What do you want from me?
This criminal can't carry his cross
by himself anymore.
You will help him! Get going!
I can't do that.
It's none of my business.
Get someone else!
Help him! He is a holy man!
Do as I tell you. Now move!
Let's go!
All right, but remember...
I'm an innocent man...
forced to carry the cross
of a condemned man.
Stay here. Wait for me.
Let's go!
Don't stop!
Permit me, my Lord.
What are you doing?
Who do you think you are?
Go.
Get away from here.
Impossible people!
Someone stop this!
Restrain yourself!
Stop!
Stop! Stop!
Leave him alone!
Leave him alone now!
If you don't stop...
I won't carry that
cross one more step.
I don't care what you do to me!
All right, all right.
Let's get moving!
We don't have all day.
Let's go!
Hurry!
Jew!
Let's go, let's go!
Get up!
Tough Jew!
Come on, king of worms!
Let's go!
King of the dead!
Go!
Hurry!
Open the gates!
Up! Raise!
Almost there.
Let's go...
Let's go!
Almost done...
Almost done.
You have heard...
this saying...
"Love your neighbor
and hate your enemy."
But I say to you:
love your enemies...
and pray for those
who persecute you...
For if you only love
those who love you...
what reward is there in that?
Go away!
Forward!
I am the good shepherd.
I lay down my life
for my sheep.
No one takes my life from me...
but I lay it down
of my own accord.
I have power to lay it down...
and power to take it up...
again.
This command is from my Father.
You are going to need help
here!
Leave. Go on!
Go on! Go on!
You can get up now!
Get up!
Enough!
Stand up!
Get up, your majesty.
Can't you get up?
We haven't got all day!
Move! We're ready.
Get up, your highness.
What happened?
We are waiting for you!
Get up!
Tough...
Jew!
So far, you're doing fine!
Hurry!
Faster!
Let's go!
- The new king!
- Get up!
A sunken hull!
He is obviously stupid!
You are my friends.
There is no greater love
than for a man...
to lay down his life
for his friends.
Faster!
Stupid,
you're going to love this!
Strength!
I cannot be with you much longer,
my friends.
You...
cannot...
go where I am going.
My commandment to you
after I am gone, is this:
Love one another.
As I have loved you...
you...
must love each other.
You believe in me.
You know that I am the Way...
the Truth...
and the Life.
And no one comes to the Father
but by me.
Further out...
Idiots!
Let me show you how to do it.
Like this!
There! Get in there!
Hold the hand open... like this!
Father, forgive them!
Father...
Father, my Father...
my God...
They don't know what they do...
Hey, look, your jackals!
Turn the wood over
on its face, idiots!
Lift up the cross!
Bend the nails!
Sunken hull!
Fix it in place.
JESUS OF NAZARETH
THE KING OF THE JEWS
Take this and eat.
This is my body...
which is given up for you.
Take this and drink.
This is my...
blood of the new covenant...
which is given for you and for many,
for the forgiveness of sins.
Do this in memory of me.
If you are the son of God...
why don't you save yourself?
Prove it to all of us...
that you are
who you say you are!
Come down!
You said you could
destroy the temple...
and rebuild it in three days...
and yet you cannot come down
from that cross.
If he is the Messiah...
I say let him come down
from the cross,
so that we may see and believe!
Jesus!
Father...
forgive them!
They know not what they do.
They don't know!
Listen...
He prays for you!
We deserve this, Gesmas...
but he does not!
I have sinned...
and my punishment is just!
You would be justified
in condemning me...
I ask only
that you remember me...
Lord...
when you enter your kingdom...
Amen, I tell you...
on this day you shall be with me...
in paradise.
I thirst...
Flesh of my flesh...
heart of my heart...
My son...
let me die with you!
Woman...
behold...
your son.
John...
Son, behold...
your mother!
There is no one left!
No one...
Jesus!
My God...
why have you forsaken me?
It is accomplished.
Father...
into Your hands...
I commend...
my spirit.
Kill them!
What is that?
You're not robbers!
Be quiet! Be quiet!
Make walls of yourselves!
Go!
Break the shins!
Kill them!
Quick! Quick!
Cassius! Hurry!
He's dead!
Make sure!